mutate: basic schemata (#1000)
joakim-brannstrom/dextool: plugin/mutate/doc/design/overview.md

# Development

A useful mutation tool must have *at least* the following characteristics:
 - easy to use in the day-to-day development.
 - performant _enough_ to give feedback early.
 - formal and robust _enough_ to pass a DO-178C tool qualification process for
   automation of required activities.
 - few false positives.

The development priorities to achieve the characteristics are broken down as
follows:

**Priority 1**: implement all interesting cases to get real world experience.
We do not know how to best use mutation testing in an industrial setting.
Instead of arguing and speculating what features are best when there are so
many low hanging fruits we instead choose to focus on implementing a broad
array of them to try them out in the real world. To get feedback from the users
in order to guide the future development.

This will of course need to be re-evaluated when the tool and process has
reached an acceptable maturity. This is further explained in the chapter
[PoC](#proof-of-concept).

**Priority 2**: add tests to show it continues working. The intention is to
continuously demonstrate progress to the stakeholders. An additional benefit is

> a reduction of regressions which would greatly annoy our users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a reduction of regressions which would greatly annoy users and tool contributors.
```

**Priority 3**: maintain code quality standards. Reduce technical debt which
has a negative impact on development speed. This is in prepare the plugin for
being used outside of research projects.

## Proof Of Concept

The tool starts as a proof of concept that over time is converted to a
maintained, extendable tool.

The purpose of the PoC is to identify issues rather than solving them.

**Priority 1**: The PoC should realize enough features to act as a platform for
small scale mutation testing.

**Priority 2**: The PoC should be practical to use for source code mutation for
applications between 1k-10k SLOC.

The PoC thus help to derive and clarify the use cases.

 - what are the problems when scaling mutation testing?
 - what are the important usability characteristics needed by a mutation tool for every day development?
 - what mutations are important from a DO-178C perspective?

>  - explore Offutt's and others idea for a scalable architecture for mutation testing.

Reviewer: Unclear what `Offutt's and others idea` is. Is there a reference?
